GNU LESSER GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
       Version 3, 29 June 2007

 Copyright (C) 2007 Free Software Foundation, Inc. <http://fsf.org/>
 Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies
 of this license document, but changing it is not allowed.

This version of the GNU Lesser General Public License incorporates the
terms and conditions of version 3 of the GNU General Public License,
supplemented by the additional permissions listed below.

0. Additional Definitions.

  “This License” refers to version 3 of the GNU Lesser General Public
License.

  “The Program” refers to any copyrightable work licensed under this
License. Each licensee is addressed as “you”.

  “Library” means a non-executable functional work, other than a
Program, which includes material prepared for the forming of software
packages.

  A “linked version” of a covered work means a form that is produced
by combining the covered work with other insofar as those other works
are not covered by a compilation copyright.

  The “Minimal Corresponding Source” for a covered work means the
smallest subset of source code that a user could combine with the
covered work to produce a linked version, if the covered work is a
Library.

  The “Corresponding Application” for a covered work means the Program
that uses the covered work as a Library, if the covered work is a
Library.

  A “Combined Work” means a work produced by combining or linking an
Application with a Library.

  “Application” means any copyrightable work that uses a Library,
other than a Combined Work.

  “Corresponding Source” for an Application means the source code of
the Application, including any data and utility programs needed for
reproducing the Application from it.

1. Exception to Sections 3 of the GNU GPL.

  You may convey a covered work under sections 3 and 4 of this License
without being bound by section 3 of the GNU GPL, provided that you
also fulfill the conditions of this License.

2. Conveying Modified Versions.

  You may convey a modified version of a covered work under sections 3
and 4 of this License without being bound by section 3 of the GNU GPL,
provided that you also fulfill the conditions of this License.

3. Conveying Combined Works.

  You may convey a Combined Work under terms of your choice, provided
that the terms permit modification of the work for the customer's own
use and reverse engineering for debugging such modifications.

  You must give prominent notice with each copy of the Combined Work
that the Library is used in it and that the Library and its use are
covered by this License. You must supply a copy of this License. If
the Combined Work during execution displays copyright notices, you must
include the copyright notice for the Library among them, as well as a
reference directing the user to the copy of this License.

  You must also do one of the following:

    a) Accompany the Combined Work with the Minimal Corresponding
    Source for the Library, including whatever changes were used in the
    Combined Work (which must be distributed under sections 1 and 2 of
    this License); and, if the Combined Work is an executable linked
    with the Library, with the complete machine-readable “work that
    uses the Library”, as object code and/or source code, so that the
    user can modify the Library and then relink to produce a modified
    executable containing the modified Library. (It is understood that
    the user who changes the contents of definitions files in the
    Library will not necessarily be able to recompile the application
    to use the modified definitions.)

    b) Use a suitable shared library mechanism for linking with the
    Library. A suitable mechanism is one that (1) uses at run time a
    copy of the library already present on the user's computer system,
    rather than copying library functions into the executable, and (2)
    will operate properly with a modified version of the library, if
    the user installs one, as long as the modified version is
    interface-compatible with the version that the work was made with.

    c) Accompany the Combined Work with a written offer, valid for at
    least three years, to give the same user the materials specified in
    subsection 3a, above, for a charge no more than the cost of
    performing this distribution.

    d) If distribution of the work is made by offering access to copy
    from a designated place, offer equivalent access to copy the above
    specified materials from the same place.

    e) Verify that the user has already received a copy of these
    materials or that you have already sent this user a copy.

  For an executable, the required form of the “work that uses the
Library” must include any data and utility programs needed for
reproducing the executable from it. However, as a special exception,
the materials to be distributed need not include anything that is
normally distributed (in either source or binary form) with the major
components (compiler, kernel, and so on) of the operating system on
which the executable runs, unless that component itself accompanies
the executable.

  It may happen that this requirement contradicts the license
restrictions of other proprietary libraries that do not normally
accompany the operating system. Such a contradiction means you cannot
use both them and the Library together in an executable that you
distribute.

4. Combined Libraries.

  You may place library facilities that are a work based on the
Library side-by-side in a single library together with other library
facilities not covered by this License, and distribute such a combined
library, provided that the separate distribution of the work based on
the Library and of the other library facilities is otherwise
permitted, and provided that you do these two things:

    a) Accompany the combined library with a copy of the same work
    based on the Library, uncombined with any other library
    facilities. This must be distributed under the terms of the
    Sections above.

    b) Give prominent notice with the combined library of the fact
    that part of it is a work based on the Library, and explaining
    where to find the accompanying uncombined form of the same work.

5. No Warranty.

  THERE IS NO WARRANTY FOR THE LIBRARY, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY
APPLICABLE LAW. EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT
HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER PARTIES PROVIDE THE LIBRARY “AS IS” WITHOUT
WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND
PERFORMANCE OF THE LIBRARY IS WITH YOU. SHOULD THE LIBRARY PROVE
DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE COST OF ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR
CORRECTION.

6. Limitation of Liability.

  IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN
WRITING WILL ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY
AND/OR REDISTRIBUTE THE LIBRARY AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU
FOR DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY TO USE THE
LIBRARY (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA BEING
RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A
FAILURE OF THE LIBRARY TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER SOFTWARE), EVEN IF
SUCH HOLDER OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGES.

7. Interpretation of Sections 15 and 16 of the GPL.

  This License is a “free software license”. It means that it is a
copyleft license for the benefit of the Free Software Foundation and
the free software community. It further means that it is compatible
with the GNU GPL version 3, as published by the Free Software
Foundation.

8. End of Terms and Conditions.

  The GNU General Public License is incorporated by reference into this
License.
